STARTUP_SETUP.md, before:

# Ubuntu Startup Setup Guide

To have the Expense App Desktop open automatically when you log in to your Ubuntu machine, follow these steps:

## 1. Create a Startup Script
Create a file named `start_expense_app.sh` in the project directory:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
cd /home/ren/Documents/antigravity_projects/expense_app_desktop
streamlit run app.py --server.headless true
```
Make it executable:
`chmod +x /home/ren/Documents/antigravity_projects/expense_app_desktop/start_expense_app.sh`

## 2. Add to Startup Applications
1. Open the **Startup Applications** tool from the Ubuntu application menu.
2. Click **Add**.
3. Name: `Expense App Desktop`
4. Command: `/home/ren/Documents/antigravity_projects/expense_app_desktop/start_expense_app.sh`
5. Comment: `Starts the expense app scanner and UI`
6. Click **Add**.

## Alternative: Using a .desktop file
You can also create a file at `~/.config/autostart/expense_app.desktop`:

```ini
[Desktop Entry]
Type=Application
Exec=/home/ren/Documents/antigravity_projects/expense_app_desktop/start_expense_app.sh
Hidden=false
NoDisplay=false
X-GNOME-Autostart-enabled=true
Name[en_US]=Expense App Desktop
Name=Expense App Desktop
Comment[en_US]=Starts the expense app scanner and UI
Comment=Starts the expense app scanner and UI
```

Commit message:

feat: Improve startup script with dynamic pathing and virtual environment check, update setup documentation, and ignore CSV/XLSX files.

STARTUP_SETUP.md, after:

# Ubuntu Startup Setup Guide

To have the Expense App Desktop open automatically when you log in to your Ubuntu machine, follow these steps:

## 1. Create a Startup Script
Create a file named `start_expense_app.sh` in the project directory:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# Automatically identify the project directory
SCRIPT_DIR="$( cd "$( dirname "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}" )" &> /dev/null && pwd )"
cd "$SCRIPT_DIR"
source venv/bin/activate
streamlit run app.py --server.headless true
```
Make it executable:
`chmod +x start_expense_app.sh`

## 2. Add to Startup Applications
1. Open the **Startup Applications** tool from the Ubuntu application menu.
2. Click **Add**.
3. Name: `Expense App Desktop`
4. Command: `/path/to/your/project/start_expense_app.sh` (Replace with the absolute path to the script on your machine)
5. Comment: `Starts the expense app scanner and UI`
6. Click **Add**.

## Alternative: Using a .desktop file
You can also create a file at `~/.config/autostart/expense_app.desktop`:

```ini
[Desktop Entry]
Type=Application
Exec=/path/to/your/project/start_expense_app.sh
Hidden=false
NoDisplay=false
X-GNOME-Autostart-enabled=true
Name[en_US]=Expense App Desktop
Name=Expense App Desktop
Comment[en_US]=Starts the expense app scanner and UI
Comment=Starts the expense app scanner and UI
```
